|-------------------------------------------|
|Different facts about Christmas in Germany.|
|-------------------------------------------|

A big part of Christmas in Germany is Advent.

Several different types of Advent calendars are used in German homes.

As well as the traditional one made of card that are used in many countries, there are ones made out of a wreath of Fir tree branches with 24 
decorated boxes or bags hanging from it. Each box or bag has a little present in it.

Another type is called a 'Advent Kranz' and is a ring of fir branches that has four candles on it. This is like the Advent candles that are 
sometimes used in Churches. One candle is lit at the beginning of each week in Advent.

Christmas Trees are very important in Germany. They were first used in Germany during the Middle Ages.

If there are young children in the house, the trees are usually secretly decorated by the mother of the family.

The Christmas tree was traditionally brought into the house on Christmas eve. In some parts of Germany, during the evening the family would read 
the Bible and sing Christmas songs such as O Tannenbaum, Ihr Kinderlein Kommet and Stille Nacht (Silent Night).

Sometimes wooden frames, covered with colored plastic sheets and with electric candles inside, are put in windows to make the house look pretty 
from the outside.

Christmas Eve is the main day when Germans exchange presents with their families.

In German Happy/Merry Christmas is 'Frohe Weihnachten'.

Christmas Day being called “Erste Feiertag” ('first celebration') and the 26th December is known as "Zweite Feiertag” ('second celebration') and 
also “Zweiter Weihnachtsfeiertag” which translates as Boxing Day (although it doesn’t literally mean that)!

Germany is well known for its Christmas Markets where all sorts of Christmas foods and decorations are sold. Perhaps the most famous German 
decorations are glass ornaments. The glass ornaments were originally hand blown glass and were imported in the USA in 1880s by the Woolworth 
stores.

The legend of the glass 'Christmas Pickle' is famous in the USA, but it's that, a legend. Most people in Germany have never heard of the 
Christmas Pickle!

In some parts of Germany, mainly the south east of the country, children write to the 'das Christkind/Christkindl' asking for presents. The 
letters to the Christkind are decorated with sugar glued to the envelope to make them sparkly and attractive to look at. Children leave the 
letters on the windowsill at the beginning of or during Advent.

'das Christkind' translates as 'The Christ Child' in English but Germans don't think of the Christkind as the baby Jesus! The Christkind is often 
described as a young girl with 'Christ like' qualities. In Nürnberg a young girl is chosen every year to participate in a parade as the 
Christkind. She wears a long white and gold dress, has long blond curly hair and wears a gold crown and sometimes wings like an angel. This is 
similar to St Lucia in Sweden. (And it can seem a bit confusing calling the 'Christ Child', Jesus, a girl!)

The Nürnberg Christkind officially opens the Christmas market on the Friday before Advent starts. And before Christmas she has over 150 'official 
duties' including visiting hospitals, old people's homes and children's nurseries! She also has to give TV interviews and visit other cities.

Santa Claus or Father Christmas (der Weihnachtsmann) brings the main Christmas presents on December 24th. You might also write a letter to 
Weihnachtsmann in other parts of Germany. Some people say that Santa/Father Christmas (Weihnachtsmann) brings the presents and some say it is 
Christkind!

As well as hoping for presents from Christkind or der Weihnachtsmann, children also hope that 'der Nikolaus' will bring you some small gifts, 
such as sweets and chocolate on the 6th December (St Nicholas's Day). He comes in the night between the 5th and the 6th and puts the presents 
into the shoes of the children, who usually place them by their doors on the previous evening.

In some regions of Germany, there is a character called "Knecht Ruprecht" or "Krampus" who accompanies Nikolaus (St. Nicholas) on the 6th of 
December. He is a big horned monster clothed in rags and carries chains. He is mean to punish the children who have been bad! He is usually the 
one who scares the little children.

In other parts of Germany, St. Nicholas is followed by a small person called "Schwarzer Peter" (Black Peter) who carries a small whip. Black 
Peter also accompanies St. Nicholas or Sinterklaas in Holland. In north west Germany Santa is joined by Belsnickel a man dressed all in fur. 
Although 'der Nikolaus' visits in December, he's not officially part of Christmas!



